---
layout: post
title: "Day 4 - Progress"
---

### What I Set Out to Do
Find where the data is created with help from the discord, implement the mutations, and then maybe start on inheritance

---

### What I Actually Did

After receiving a very helpful tip from the discord, telling me that it was in the scripts folder, then in the cats folder, then in cats.py, and in that it was in the get_save_dict() function. After I implemented it there, (and creating a new function that would compile the genotype and phenotype into the format I wanted them), I got it working! ... sort of. I had shapeshifting kitties (everytime you opened the game the mutations would generate again). So after mirroring some code I found that was combating that same problem for the name, I got it to work.

---

### What I Learned or Noticed

I learned that you don't always have to know exactly what's going on in the code, as long as it works, it works. For example, I didn't really understand how to make the mutations not generate everytime you closed and opened the game, but after mirroring code that did work, I got it to work, so as long as that strategy works I don't really need to learn exactly how it works. Another example was that for some reason the first gene in the extras genotype was returning as a list (as [lure] instead of lure), and instead of finding the problem (which I had no idea where to begin, the two genes were basically coded the same, but they were returning different formats), I just did extras_1[0], which meant it was only taking the first item, essentially getting rid of the weird list shenanigans. I didn't know what was going on with the list, but I didn't need to, as I found a good solution.

---

### What's Next

Tomorrow I will figure out how the inheritance works, and implement inheritance for my mutations.
